# CQRS and MediatR concepts

- **CQRS** stands for Command Query Responsibility Segregation. It's a pattern that separates the read and write operations of a data store. It's a pattern that can be used in conjunction with **MediatR** to create a more maintainable and testable codebase.
- **Command**: Represents a write operation. It's used to perform actions that change the state.
  - Task-based, not data-based. Can be processed asynchronously on a queue.
- **Query**: Represents a read operation. It's used to retrieve data from the data store.
  - Never changes the database state. Returns a DTO that doesn't encapsulate any domain logic.
- We can have synchronization between the read and write operations, but it's not mandatory.
- We can have separate databases optimized for read and write operations.
- It evolved from the **CQS** pattern, which states that a method should either change the state of an object or return a result, but not both.

## Pros and Cons

- **Pros**:
  - **Separation of Concerns**: It's easier to maintain and test the code.
  - **Scalability**: We can scale the read and write operations independently.
  - **Performance**: We can optimize the read and write operations.
- **Cons**:
  - **Complexity**: It can add complexity to the codebase.
  - **Eventual Consistency**: We can have synchronization issues between the read and write operations.
- When not to use:
  - **Simple CRUD operations**: It's overkill for simple operations.
  - **Small projects**: It can add unnecessary complexity. - KISS principle.

## MediatR

- **Mediator**: behavioral design pattern that allows loose coupling between objects.
- **MediatR**: library that implements the mediator pattern in C#.
- With CQRS, we can use MediatR to send commands and queries to the handlers.

## UnitOfWork

- **Unit of Work**: It's a design pattern that ensures that all the operations are performed as a single transaction.
  - It ensures that all the operations are performed successfully or none of them. Focus on consistency.

## Dapper for queries

- **Dapper**: Micro ORM that allows us to execute queries and map the results to objects.

## Using MediatR

- **Request/Response messages**: Represents the data that will be sent to one single handler.
- **Notification messages**: Represents the data that will be sent to multiple handlers.

- **Request**: Represents the message that will be sent to the handler.
- **Handler**: Represents the class that will process the request.
- Interfaces:
  - **IRequest**: Creates the messages.
    - `IRequest<TResponse>`: Creates the messages with a response.
    - `IRequest`: Creates the messages without a response.
  - **IRequestHandler**: Handles the messages.
    - `IRequestHandler<TRequest, TResponse>`: Handles the messages with a response.
    - `IRequestHandler<TRequest>`: Handles the messages without a response.

## Install MediatR

- `dotnet add package MediatR` > App.Application project

```csharp
var myhanlers = AppDomain.CurrentDomain.Load("App.Application"); // Load the assemblies with the MediatR handlers
services.AddMediatR(config => config.RegisterServicesFromAssemblies(myhanlers)); // Register the handlers to the services pipeline
```

- Add to Controllers:

```csharp
private readonly IMediator _mediator;

public MyController(IMediator mediator)
{
    _mediator = mediator;
}
```
