# JWT on .NET

- We can manage JWT on .NET using `dotnet user-jwts` command line tool.
  - To do so, we need to install the `Microsoft.AspNetCore.Authentication.JwtBearer` package.
- Define the JWT authentication scheme in the `Program.cs` file:

```csharp
builder.Services.AddAuthentication("Bearer").AddJwtBearer();
```

- Protect the API endpoints using the `[Authorize]` attribute:

```csharp
[Authorize]
[HttpGet("protected")]
public IActionResult GetProtectedResource()
{
    return Ok("This is a protected resource.");
}
```

- Or on minimal APIs:

```csharp
app.MapGet("/protected", () => "This is a protected resource.")
    .RequireAuthorization();
```

- Generate a JWT token using `dotnet user-jwts create` command:

```bash
dotnet user-jwts create --username <username> --issuer <issuer> --audience <audience> --lifetime <lifetime> --secret <secret>
```

- Use the generated JWT token to access protected resources.

## dotnet user-jwts commands

- `dotnet user-jwts create`: Creates a new JWT token.
  - Automatically registers a set of secret keys <UserSecretsId> demanded by the Secret Manager on the project file `.csproj`. And defines the auth configs on the `appsettings.Development.json` file.
- `dotnet user-jwts list`: Lists all the JWT tokens created for the current user.
- `dotnet user-jwts key`: Displays the secret key used to sign the JWT tokens.
- `dotnet user-jwts remove {ID}`: Removes the JWT token with the specified ID.
- `dotnet user-jwts clear`: Clears all the JWT tokens created for the current user.
- `dotnet user-jwts key --reset -force`: Resets the secret key used to sign the JWT tokens. This will invalidate all existing tokens.
- `dotnet user-jwts print {ID} --show-all`: Prints the details of the JWT token with the specified ID. The `--show-all` option displays all the information about the token, including the claims, expiration time, and signature.
