# Filters

- They are executed inside the Actions pipeline.
- They are used to perform operations before and after the execution of an action.

## Types of Filters

- **Authorization filters**: Used to perform authorization before the action is executed.
- **Resource filters**: Handle the request after authorization and execute before the model binding.
- **Action filters**: Used to perform operations before and after the action is executed.
- **Exception filters**: Used to handle exceptions thrown by the action.
- **Result filters**: Used to perform operations before and after the result is executed.

## Approaches to Implement Filters

- **Synchrounous implementation**: `OnActionExecuting` (before) and `OnActionExecuted` (after) methods are used to implement filters.
- **Asynchronous implementation**: `OnActionExecutionAsync` method is used to implement filters.
  - Uses `FilterTypeExecutingContext` and `FilterTypeExecutionDelegate` classes.

## Scope and execution order

- Scopes:

  - **Global**: Applied to all controllers and actions.
  - **Controller**: Applied to all actions in a controller.
  - **Action**: Applied to a specific action.

- Execution order:
  - **Global filters**: Executed first.
  - **Class filters**: Executed second.
  - **Method filters**: Executed third.

## IExceptionFilter

- Represents a filter that runs after an action has thrown an exception.
- It is used to handle exceptions thrown by the action.
- It is implemented by the `ExceptionFilterAttribute` class.
