# Logging

- Log is a record of events that occur in an application.
- To have a data log, we do logging or log recording.
- Logging is used to track the application's behavior, monitor the application, and troubleshoot issues.

## Logs on ASP.NET Core

- It supports a Logging API that works with various logging providers.
- With Internal providers, we can also use external providers, such as Elmah, NLog, Serilog, and Log4Net.
- Providers: Console, Debug, EventSource, EventLog, TraceSource, and Azure App Service.

## Log Levels

- **Critical**: Logs critical errors that cause the application to crash. Requires immediate attention.
- **Error**: Logs errors that do not cause the application to crash but need to be fixed.
- **Warning**: Logs warnings that do not cause the application to crash but need to be fixed.
- **Information**: Logs information about the application's behavior.
- **Debug**: Logs debug information for debugging purposes.
- **Trace**: Logs detailed information for debugging purposes.
- **None**: Disables logging.

## Logging in ASP.NET Core

- Interfaces of `Microsoft.Extensions.Logging` namespace:
  - `ILogger`: Represents a type used to perform logging.
  - `ILoggingProvider`: Represents a type used to log messages.
  - `ILoggingFactory`: Represents a type used to create instances of `ILogger` and `ILoggingProvider`.

-The configuration of the logging provider can be:

- File format;
- CLI arguments;
- Environment variables;
- .NET in memory objects;
- Secret Manager non cryptographic storage.
- Cryptographic user secrets, like Azure Key Vault.
- Personalized providers (created or third-party).

- Ex: `appsettings.json` file:

```json
{
  "Logging": {
    "LogLevel": {
      "Default": "Information",
      "Microsoft": "Warning",
      "Microsoft.Hosting.Lifetime": "Information"
    },
    "Console": {
      "IncludeScopes": true
    }
  }
}
```
