# CORS

- CORS (Cross-Origin Resource Sharing) is a security feature implemented by web browsers to prevent malicious websites from making requests to a different domain than the one that served the web page.
  - `Same-Origin Policy`: A security measure that restricts web pages from making requests to a different domain, protocol, or port than the one that served the web page.
  - `Origin`: The combination of the protocol (http or https), domain (example.com), and port (80 or 443) that identifies a web page.
- So, web browsers enforce the same-origin policy, blocking requests to different origins by default.
- CORS allows servers to specify which origins are allowed to access their resources by including specific HTTP headers in the response.
  - Ex: `Access-Control-Allow-Origin: https://example.com`
  - They are added in both request and response.
- We can use www.apirequest.io to test CORS.

## Enabling CORS on .NET Core

- There are three ways to enable CORS in .NET Core:
  - `Global CORS Policy`: at the middleware level, using a named policy or default policy.
  - `Controller CORS Policy`: Apply CORS policy using endpoints routing.
  - `Action CORS Policy`: Apply CORS policy to specific actions within a controller using [EnableCors] attribute.

## Global CORS Policy

- To enable CORS globally, we need to add the CORS services in the `ConfigureServices` method of the `Program.cs` file.
- Example:

```csharp
var AllowedSpecificOrigins = "_allowedSpecificOrigins";

builder.Services.AddCors(options =>
{
    options.AddPolicy(name: AllowedSpecificOrigins,
                      policy =>
                      {
                          policy.WithOrigins("https://apirequest.io", // Can't have the last slash
                                              "https://example.com");
                      });
});

app.UseHttpsRedirection();
app.UseStaticFiles();
app.UseRouting();

app.UseCors(AllowedSpecificOrigins); // Must be between UseRouting and UseAuthorization. Must be after UseStaticFiles and UseHttpsRedirection.

app.UseAuthorization();
app.MapControllers();
app.Run();
```
